Ingredients:

    1½ chicken breasts (pechugas de pollo)
    1 bag of Maseca for tamales (maseca para tamales)
    1 quart Nutrioli oil (aceite Nutrioli)
    4 tablespoons chicken bouillon (consomé de pollo), dissolved in a small cup of water
    1 tablespoon baking powder (polvo de hornear)
    Salt to taste (sal al gusto)
    2 tomatoes (tomates)
    30 cascabel chiles (chiles cascabel), deveined
    6 chipotle chiles (chiles chipotle)
    4-6 cloves garlic (dientes de ajo)
    ½ teaspoon cumin (comino)
    2 cloves (clavos)
    10 peppercorns (pimientas)
    Onion (cebolla)
    Banana leaves (hojas de plátano) or boiled corn husks (hojas de elote hervidas)

Instructions:
Chicken (Pollo):

    Boil the Chicken:
        Boil 1½ chicken breasts until fully cooked.
        Shred the chicken (pollo se desmenuza) and set aside.

Tamale Dough (Masa de Tamal):

    Prepare the Dough:
        In a large bowl, mix 1 bag of Maseca for tamales (maseca para tamales), 1 quart of Nutrioli oil (aceite Nutrioli), 4 tablespoons of chicken bouillon (consomé de pollo) dissolved in a small cup of water, 1 tablespoon of baking powder (polvo de hornear), and salt to taste (sal al gusto).
        Gradually add room temperature chicken broth (caldo de pollo al tiempo) to the mixture. The dough (masa) should be slightly wetter than tortilla dough. If using a standing mixer, use the “S” shaped tool.

Chicken Sauce (Salsa para Pollo):

    Prepare the Sauce:
        Boil 2 tomatoes (tomates), 30 cascabel chiles (chiles cascabel) without veins, 6 chipotle chiles (chiles chipotle), and 4-6 cloves garlic (dientes de ajo) until soft.
        Blend the boiled ingredients with ½ teaspoon of cumin (comino), 2 cloves (clavos), and 10 peppercorns (pimientas) until smooth.
        Strain the mixture (se cuela esta mezcla).

    Cook the Sauce:
        In a pan with oil, sauté the onion (cebolla) until translucent.
        Add the shredded chicken (pollo hervido) and brown it slightly.
        Pour in the chile mixture (mezcla de chile) and cook until well combined.

Tamale Wrappers (Hojas para el Tamal):

    Prepare the Wrappers:
        Use banana leaves (hojas de plátano) heated over a flame or boiled corn husks (hojas de elote hervidas) to wrap the tamales.

Cooking Time (Tiempo que le toma al tamal cocerse):

    Cook the Tamales:
        Place the wrapped tamales in a steamer and cook on high heat (a todo fuego) for 2 hours.
        Once it starts boiling, reduce the heat to medium.
